Setup notes for SAC catalogue:

Tim Sutton 2009

%!target       : html
%!style(html)  : style.css
%!Options      : --toc --toc-level 3 --enum-title --css-sugar --css-inside
%!preproc      : TUT_URL   https://qgis.org
%!PostProc(html): '(?i)(<pre>)' '<div class="code">\1'
%!PostProc(html): '(?i)(</pre>)' '\1</div>'
%!encoding: iso-8859-1
% These are comments and will not be generated in any output
% -------------------

%This document is in text2tags format. You can generate html, plain text and
%moinmoin formatted documentation by running txt2tags on this document. See the
%txt2tags home page for more details.  Please insert manual line breaks in this
%document as it makes diffing for changes much easier. To do this in vim 
%automatically, select a section then issue (gq) command. Please dont
%apply vim formatting to the whol document as it screws up some formatting
%rather apply it selectively to paragraphs where needed.

% To generate the text version of this document:
% txt2tags -t txt -o README docs/README.t2t
% To generate the moinmoin version of this document
% txt2tags -t moin -o README.moin  docs/README.t2t
% To generate the html version of this document
% txt2tags -t html -o README.html docs/README.t2t
% To generate the pdf version of this document
% txt2tags -t latex -o README.tex docs/README.t2t
% then pdflatex docs/README.tex
% do a second time to generate the contents table:  pdflatex README.tex

% End of comments
% -------------------

= Installation Guide =

== Prepare your system ==

You need to be running Django  >= 1.2.1 for the catalogue to work. Ubuntu Lucid
and Debian Lenny ship with older versions so do a manual build. We walk through this
setup using the python virtual environment system.

=== Create working dir ===

```
cd /opt
mkdir sac
cd sac
```

=== Setup python virtual environment ===



We install Python in a virtual environment on Ubuntu and Debian, to be able to
install Django 1.2 separate from the "System Python" and avoid conflicts.

If you do not have the Python virtualenv software, get it with:

```
sudo apt-get install python-virtualenv
```

Now, start the Python virtual environment setup. We install Python in the
"python" subfolder of the project directory and then activate the virtual
environment.

```
virtualenv --no-site-packages python
source python/bin/activate
```


=== Install some development dependencies ===

```
sudo apt-get install libpq-dev libpq4 libpqxx-dev
```

Install easy_install so that we can use pip thereafter:

```
easy_install pip
```

=== Informix DB Support ===

This is only needed on machines that will be doing updates from the legacy acs system.

You need to have the informix client sdk installed on the machine first.

Then make sure the virtual environment is active:

```
source ../python/bin/activate
```

Then extract the python informix client to tmp and install it into your venv.

```
cd /tmp/
tar xfz /home/timlinux/Informix/InformixDBPython-2.5.tar.gz
cd InformixDB-2.5/
python setup.py build_ext
python setup.py install
```

=== GDAL Python Bindings ===

The gdal python bindings (which are installed using the REQUIREMENTS file in
the section that follows) will not compile without swq.h header. On my
production servers where I am using a hand-built gdal with ecw support, I coped
the aforementioned header into /usr/local/include. The header file is available
here:

```
http://svn.osgeo.org/gdal/branches/1.7/gdal/ogr/swq.h
```

=== Install django and required django apps ===

To install django, django authentication etc into our virtual environment do:

```
pip install -r sac_catalogue/REQUIREMENTS.txt
```

Then make sure the appropriate settings from djangodblog in settings.py.templ are 
deployed in your production settings.py

The full list of packages installed using the REQUIREMENTS file is:

%quotes on next line so file is included as a formated block
%!include: ``../../REQUIREMENTS.txt``


=== Further info on django registration ===

You may also want to read this:

http://devdoodles.wordpress.com/2009/02/16/user-authentication-with-django-registration/

if you want more info on how the registration stuff works.  
  
*Note:* that you need to log in to the admin area of the site and change the
domain name in the sites table from something other than 'example.com',
otherwise the registration middleware will send the reminder with an incorrect
url.




== Source code Check out ==

Check out this folder using 

```
svn co https://196.35.94.196/svn/trunk/sac_catalogue
cd sac_catalogue
```

Copy settings.py.template to settings.py and then 
modify settings.py as needed (probably you just need to set 
the eth adapter and db connection settings).

== Database setup ==

Create the database using:

```
createlang plpgsql template1
psql template1 < /usr/share/postgresql-8.3-postgis/lwpostgis.sql
psql template1 < /usr/share/postgresql-8.3-postgis/spatial_ref_sys.sql
createdb sac
createdb acs
```

=== For an empty database: ===

Sync the model to the db (dont do this is you plan to restore an existing db as
explained in the next section):

```
python manage.py syncdb --database=default
```

And if you have the legacy acs catalogue do:

```
python manage.py syncdb --database=acs
```

The django fixtures included with this project should populate the 
initial database when you run the above command.

=== Restoring an existing database ===

Nightly backups are made on lion at:

```
/mnt/cataloguestorage1/backups/YEAR/MONTH/DAY/
```

To restore the backup do:

```
pg_restore sac_postgis_30August2010.dmp | psql sac
pg_restore acs_postgis_30August2010.dmp | psql acs

```

== Setup apache (mod  python way) ==

**Note:** This will be deprecated in favour of mod_wsgi (see next section)

Make sure you have mod_expires and mod_deflate installed.

The assumption is that you are using name based virtual hosts and that the 
catalogue will run at the root of such a virtual host. Add to you apache site config:

```
cd apache
cp apache-site-modpy.templ catlogue-modpy
```


Modify as appropriate your closed catalogue-modpy file the source tree then link
it to apache.

```
sudo ln -s catlogue-modpy /etc/apache2/sites-available/catalogue-modpy
```

Also do:

```
sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-python
```

Now deploy the site:

```
sudo a2ensite catalogue-modpy
sudo /etc/init.d/apache reload
```

== Setup apache (mod_wsgi way) ==

The assumption is that you are using name based virtual hosts and that the 
catalogue will run at the root of such a virtual host. Add to you apache site config:

Modify as appropriate a copy of the apache-site-wsgi.templ file found in the apache 
dir in the source tree then link it to apache.


```
cd apache
cp apache-site-wsgi.templ catlogue-wsgi
```
Now create a symlink:

```
sudo ln -s catlogue-wsgi /etc/apache2/sites-available/catalogue-wsgi
```

Also do:

```
sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi
```

Now deploy the site:

```
sudo a2ensite catalogue-wsgi
sudo /etc/init.d/apache reload
```


== Copy over the ribbon ==

There is a ribbon image that displays in the top left corner of the site that
is used to convey version numbers etc. Since this may vary from deployment to
deployment, you should copy over an appropriate ribbon e.g.:

```
cp media/images/ribbon_template.png media/images/ribbon.png
```

== Install GEOIP data ==

GeoIP is used to resolve IP addresses to Lon/Lat. This directory needs the
GeoIP lite dataset in it:

```
cd geoip_data
wget http://www.maxmind.com/download/geoip/database/GeoLiteCity.dat.gz
gunzip GeoLiteCity.dat.gz`
```

== Check settings.py! ==

Go through settings.py (after first copying it from settings.py.templ if
needed) and check all the details are consistent in that file.

== Install proxy.cgi - note this will be deprecated ==

Some parts of this site use cross site XHttpRequests. This is not allowed in
the spec (to prevent cross site scripting attacks) so to get around this you
need to install a proxy cgi on the django hosting server *if the mapserver
instance is on a different physical server*.

```
cd /usr/lib/cgi-bin
sudo wget -O proxy.cgi \
http://trac.openlayers.org/browser/trunk/openlayers/examples/proxy.cgi?format=raw
sudo chmod +x /usr/lib/cgi-bin/proxy.cgi
```

Once you have installed the proxy.cgi you need to configure it to tell it the 
list of allowed servers it can proxy for. This is to prevent it becoming 
an open relay on the internet. Edit /usr/lib/cgi-bin/proxy/cgi and change 
line 18 to look like this:

```
allowedHosts = [ '196.35.94.243','lion', ]
```

I also changed line 32 to look like this:

```
 url = fs.getvalue('url', "http://196.35.94.243")
```

so that the default proxy url is our wms server.

See http://faq.openlayers.org/proxyhost/all/ for more info...


== Creating branches ==

**Note:** This section uses svn commands and should be updated to use git
equivalents.

When the code gets stabilised to a certain point you should create a branch 
to mark that stable code base and then deploy it on the live server. To 
create the branch do e.g.:

```
svn cp https://196.35.94.196/svn/trunk/sac_catalogue \
       https://196.35.94.196/svn/branches/catalogue_v1_beta3
```


Where:
**v1** = version 1
**beta3** = the current status of that major version

== Backup of the web server ==

```
sudo dd if=/dev/sdb | ssh definiens4 "dd of=/cxfs/dd_backups/orasac1/orasac1_sdb_`date +%a%d%b%Y`.dd"
sudo dd if=/dev/sda | ssh definiens4 "dd of=/cxfs/dd_backups/orasac1/orasac1_sda_`date +%a%d%b%Y`.dd"
```


== Creation of the ReadOnly db user ==

This should be done on the database server i.e. elephant

This user is required for mapserver access to some of the tables.

```
sudo su - postgres
createuser -S -D -R -l -P -E -e readonly
exit
psql sac
grant select on vw_usercart to readonly;
grant select on visit to readonly;
grant select on sensor to readonly;
\q
```


== Optimal database configuration ==

To support the large number of recs tweak
/etc/postgresql/8.3/main/postgresql.conf

```
# Changed by Tim as the sac db required more
max_fsm_pages = 500000
```

Then restart the db

```
sudo /etc/init.d/postgresql restart
```

== set some file permissions ==

Apache user needs write access in avatars:

```
sudo chgrp www-data media/avatars
sudo chmod g+w media/avatars
```

== ER Diagram ==

You can generate an ER diagram for the application using the django command
extensions:


To generate the graph use:

```
python manage.py graph_models catalogue > docs/catalogue_diagram.dot
cat docs/catalogue_diagram.dot | dot -Tpng -o docs/catalogue_diagram.png ; \
  display docs/catalogue_diagram.png
```

== SVN Ignoring files ==

Please read this:

http://stackoverflow.com/questions/116074/how-to-ignore-a-directory-with-svn

so that files that do not belong in svn are not shown in the status list.

== Troubleshooting ==

=== settings.py not found ===

This is usually a symptom that one of the imports withing settings.py failed.
Test by doing:

```
python
```

Then at the python prompt do

```
import settings
```

The error you obtain there (if any) will be more descriptive.
