

% Leave the blank space above here

== Procedures for importing data from MISR packages into the catalogue ==

""Note:"" This document should be considered compulsory reading before you
attempt to import any data into the catalogue.

""Note2:"" This document //must// be kept up to date when you make changes to
import scripts etc.

=== Importing the packages from a local folder ===

The import process is done by a Django management command that can be called
by a cron job.

To see all available options you can call the command with `-h` or `help`
parameter:

```
$ python manage.py misr_ingest -h
Usage: manage.py misr_ingest [options]

Imports MISR packages into the SAC catalogue

Options:
  -v VERBOSITY, --verbosity=VERBOSITY
                        Verbosity level; 0=minimal output, 1=normal output,
                        2=all output
  --settings=SETTINGS   The Python path to a settings module, e.g.
                        "myproject.settings.main". If this isn't provided, the
                        DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE environment variable will be
                        used.
  --pythonpath=PYTHONPATH
                        A directory to add to the Python path, e.g.
                        "/home/djangoprojects/myproject".
  --traceback           Print traceback on exception
  -b BASE_PATH, --base_path=BASE_PATH
                        Base catalogue path. Default is read from settings.py.
  -i, --store_image     Store the original image data extracted from the
                        package.
  -m MAXPRODUCTS, --maxproducts=MAXPRODUCTS
                        Import at most n products.
  -t, --test_only       Just test, nothing will be written into the DB.
  -k, --rcfileskip      Do not read or write the run control file.
  -o OWNER, --owner=OWNER
                        Name of the Institution package owner. Defaults to:
                        MISR.
  -s CREATING_SOFTWARE, --creating_software=CREATING_SOFTWARE
                        Name of the creating software. Defaults to: Unknown.
  -l LICENSE, --license=LICENSE
                        Name of the license. Defaults to: SAC Commercial
                        License
  -q QUALITY, --quality=QUALITY
                        Quality code (will be created if does not exists).
                        Defaults to: Unknown
  -r PROCESSING_LEVEL, --processing_level=PROCESSING_LEVEL
                        Processing level code (will be created if does not
                        exists). Defaults to: 1B2
  --version             show program's version number and exit
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
```

Running the command:
```
$ python manage.py misr_ingest
```

The packages are searched in three folders :

'MB2LME.002', 'MB2LMT.002', 'MI1B2E.003'

  - MB2LME MISR Level 1B2 Local Mode Ellipsoid Radiance Data Ellipsoid projected TOA parameters for the single local mode scene, resampled to WGS84 ellipsoid. HDF-EOS Grid
  - MB2LMT MISR Level 1B2 Local Mode Terrain Radiance Data Terrain-projected TOA radiance for the single local mode scene, resampled at the surface and topographically corrected. HDF-EOS Grid
  - MI1B2E MISR Level 1B2 Ellipsoid Data Contains the ellipsoid projected TOA radiance, resampled to WGS84 ellipsoid corrected.


**Note:** MI1B2E.003 import is untested


=== Global settings ===

The following parameters in settings.py control the process:

```
# MISR catalogue ingesting settings
MISR_ROOT= '/path/to/MISR'
```

The KML file containing the blocks footprints for the different paths is
located in the 'resources' folder immediately under the project folder.

=== Implementation details ===

Details on the implementation, mainly regarding the source of
the data used to populate the catalogue database.

Pseudocode:

  + scan the three folders:
    +  MB2LME MISR Level 1B2 Local Mode Ellipsoid Radiance Data Ellipsoid projected TOA parameters for the single local mode scene, resampled to WGS84 ellipsoid. HDF-EOS Grid
    +  MB2LMT MISR Level 1B2 Local Mode Terrain Radiance Data Terrain-projected TOA radiance for the single local mode scene, resampled at the surface and topographically corrected. HDF-EOS Grid
    +  MI1B2E MISR Level 1B2 Ellipsoid Data Contains the ellipsoid projected TOA radiance, resampled to WGS84 ellipsoid corrected.
  + sort the list of dated ascending
  +  if the last scanned date for the folder is set, start from the next date
  + opens nadir AN image
  + create thumbnail for AN (will be used for all other images)
  + parse metadata to get the footprint from KML file
  + transform footprint from EPSG:9001
  + get row and path from metadata
  + creates the tarball with all other camera images
  +


Assumptions:

Main folders are fixed:

  - MB2LME MISR Level 1B2 Local Mode Ellipsoid Radiance Data Ellipsoid projected TOA parameters for the single local mode scene, resampled to WGS84 ellipsoid. HDF-EOS Grid
  - MB2LMT MISR Level 1B2 Local Mode Terrain Radiance Data Terrain-projected TOA radiance for the single local mode scene, resampled at the surface and topographically corrected. HDF-EOS Grid
  - MI1B2E MISR Level 1B2 Ellipsoid Data Contains the ellipsoid projected TOA radiance, resampled to WGS84 ellipsoid corrected.



==== Data and metadata extraction ====


The following metadata are hardcoded constants and can be changed at the top of the script `catalogue/management/commands/rapideye_harvest.py`:

|| Parameter            | Value                |
| band_count            | 4 |
| radiometric_resolution | 16 |
| mission | TER |
| mission_sensor | MIS |
| sensor_type | VNI |
| projection | ORBIT |

**Note:** Real projection is SOM (Space Oblique Mercator: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space-oblique_Mercator_projection)

The following metadata are passed to the script as option parameters:

|| Parameter            | Default                |
| license               | SAC Commercial License |
| owner                 | MISR |
| processing_level      | 1B2                     |
| creating_software     | Unknown                |


The following metadata are read from the imagery metadata of the nadir image:

|| Parameter              | From |
| geometric_resolution_x  | Block_size.resolution_x |
| geometric_resolution_y  | Block_size.resolution_y |
| path                    | Path_number             |
| acquisition_mode        | Cam_mode  (LM or GM)    |
| metadata                | metadata (the whole)    |

The following metadata are read from imagery core metadata of the nadir image:


|| Parameter              | From |
| product_acquisition_end | RANGEENDINGDATE + RANGEENDINGTIME |
| product_acquisition_start | RANGEBEGINNINGDATE + RANGEBEGINNINGTIME|
| row                     | ORBITNUMBER |


==== Thumbnail creation ====

The thumbnail is created extracting the blocks containing valid
informations when in local mode. Those block number are stored in metadata
as "Start_block" and "End block" (note the missing undescore in the lattest).

From the extracted blocks, individual GeoTiff georeferenced images are created,
georeferencing is done through the a.m. KML path/blocks shape file.

BGR bands come from the first three band of the block image.

The three images are then resampled and merged with gdal_merge.py, there is still an unresolved
alignment problem in this procedure.


