

% Leave the blank space above here

== Procedures for importing data from DIMS packages into the catalogue ==

""Note:"" This document should be considered compulsory reading before you
attempt to import any data into the catalogue.

""Note2:"" This document //must// be kept up to date when you make changes to
import scripts etc.

""Note3:"" The most important missing piece in this import procedure is the
DIMS identification id (to be used in OS4EO ordering process): this id is
still missing from the ISOMetadata.xml file and hence it is not possible
to import DIMS packages that can be ordered via OS4EO. The DIMS id should
be available and stored into GenericSensorProduct.online_storage_medium_id.
This id must be the same that we can use to usbmit an order with OS4EO
"Submit" method

=== Importing the packages from a pickup folder ===

The import process is done by a Django management command that can be called
by a cron job.

When a package is successfully imported it is deleted from the filesystem
(a command flag can be used to avoid this behaviour).

To see all available options you can call the command with `-h` or `help`
parameter:

```
$ python manage.py dims_ingest -h
Usage: manage.py dims_ingest [options]

Import into the catalogue all DIMS packages in a given folder, SPOT-5 OpticalProduct only

Options:
  -v VERBOSITY, --verbosity=VERBOSITY
                        Verbosity level; 0=minimal output, 1=normal output,
                        2=all output
  --settings=SETTINGS   The Python path to a settings module, e.g.
                        "myproject.settings.main". If this isn't provided, the
                        DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE environment variable will be
                        used.
  --pythonpath=PYTHONPATH
                        A directory to add to the Python path, e.g.
                        "/home/djangoprojects/myproject".
  --traceback           Print traceback on exception
  -f FOLDER, --folder=FOLDER
                        Scan the given folder, defaults to current.
  -i, --store_image     Store the original image data extracted from the
                        package.
  -g GLOB, --glob=GLOB  A shell glob pattern for files to ingest.
  -t, --test_only       Just test, nothing will be written into the DB.
  -o OWNER, --owner=OWNER
                        Name of the Institution package owner. Metadata will
                        be used if available, the program will fail if no
                        metadata are available and no name is provided.
  -s CREATING_SOFTWARE, --creating_software=CREATING_SOFTWARE
                        Name of the creating software. Defaults to: SARMES1
  -l LICENSE, --license=LICENSE
                        Name of the license. Defaults to: SAC Commercial
                        License
  -k, --keep            Do not delete the package after a successful import.
  --version             show program's version number and exit
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
```


==== Options in detail ====

: -f FOLDER, --folder=FOLDER
This is the folder in which the packages to ingest are searched, defaults to the
current working directory.
Example: `-f /var/dims_packages`
: -i, --store_image
Store the original image data extracted from the package.
This flag indicates to the program that the original image
must be stored locally. The destination folder is calculated
by chaining ``settings.IMAGERY_ROOT`` and the result from
the function call ``GenericSensorProduct.productDirectory()``, the image
is compressed with ``bzip2`` and added a ".bz2" suffix.
: -g GLOB, --glob=GLOB
A shell glob pattern for files to ingest. Defaults to "*.tar.gz".
Example: ``-g "*.tgz"``
: -t, --test_only
Just test, nothing will be written into the DB or copied to
the filesystem.
: -o OWNER, --owner=OWNER
Name of the institution, as a string.
Defaults to: None.
Example: ``-o "Satellite Applications Centre"``
Note: the institution will be created if it does not exist.
Note: the institution will be read from metadata if not
specified in the options.
: -s CREATING_SOFTWARE, --creating_software=CREATING_SOFTWARE
Name of the creating software. Defaults to: //SARMES1//
Example: ``-s "SARMES1"``
Note: the software will be created if it does not exists.
Version of the software will be set to a blank string.
: -l LICENSE, --license=LICENSE
Name of the license. Defaults to: //SAC Commercial License//
Example: ``-l "SAC Free License"``
Note: will be created if it does not exists. License type
will be automatically set to //LICENSE_TYPE_ANY// (4)


=== Implementation details ===

Details on the implementation, mainly regarding the source of
the data used to populate the catalogue database.

==== Data and metadata extraction ====

The ingestion process uses the ``dims_lib`` package to extract
informations from the packages, the following data are extracted
and made available for the catalogue:

+ original metadata, is the package's ISOMetadata.xml file
+ thumbnail, read from SacPackage Product folder
+ image, the original SacPackage Product tif image
+ spatial_coverage, this is read from the metadata or directly from the image
  if it is not found
+

The following information is read from the ISOMetadata:

: product_date
'//{xmlns}dateStamp/{xmlns_gco}Date', # Product date
: file_identifier
'//{xmlns}fileIdentifier/{xmlns_gco}CharacterString',
: processing_level_code
'//{xmlns}processingLevelCode//{xmlns}code/{xmlns_gco}CharacterString',
: cloud_cover_percentage
'//{xmlns}cloudCoverPercentage/{xmlns_gco}Real',
: image_quality_code
'//{xmlns}imageQualityCode//{xmlns}code/{xmlns_gco}CharacterString',
: spatial_coverage
'//{xmlns}EX_BoundingPolygon//{xmlns_gml}coordinates',
: institution_name
'//{xmlns}CI_ResponsibleParty/{xmlns}organisationName/{xmlns_gco}CharacterString',
: institution_address
'//{xmlns}CI_Address/{xmlns}deliveryPoint/{xmlns_gco}CharacterString',
: institution_city
'//{xmlns}CI_Address/{xmlns}city/{xmlns_gco}CharacterString',
: institution_region
'//{xmlns}CI_Address/{xmlns}administrativeArea/{xmlns_gco}CharacterString',
: institution_postcode
'//{xmlns}CI_Address/{xmlns}postalCode/{xmlns_gco}CharacterString',
: institution_country
'//{xmlns}CI_Address/{xmlns}country/{xmlns_gco}CharacterString',

""Note:"" The spatial_coverage is first read from //EX_BoundingPolygon// parameter
in ISOMetadata.xml, and then read from the geotiff image if not found.


The following information is read from the main image using **GDAL** library:

+ radiometric_resolution
+ band_count
+ spatial_coverage
+


The following information are reverse-engineered from the **file_identifier**,
the process is handled from the function call ``GenericSensorProduct.productIdReverse()``

+ acquisition_mode
+ projection
+ path
+ row
+ path shift
+ row shift
+

""Note:"" The acquisition_mode is a foreign key to the sensors dictionaries, the
ingestion process will take care of creating all the necessary entries when
they are missing. The mission_group value is not present in **file_identifier** and
is hence set to the first type existing in the catalogue, should a new Mission
record need to be created during the ingestion process. In practice the Mission
dictionary entries should pre-exist and this situation should not arise.

""Note:"" If a new license is created during the ingestion process, the type is
defaulted to License.LICENSE_TYPE_ANY



""Note:"" The projection is created if it does not exists, the epsg code is
set to 0 by default.
